BUILDING.md, before:

# Building the Docker image

First, install docker and git, and modprobe vhost_vsock:

```bash
curl https://get.docker.com | sh
sudo apt install -y git
sudo modprobe vhost_vsock
```

Then the Docker image can be built as follows:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/google/android-cuttlefish.git
cd android-cuttlefish
./build.sh
```
# Starting and provisioning the container

Set up your environment:

```bash
source setup.sh # once in each terminal window
```

To create a container:

```bash
cvd_docker_create <name> # <name defaults to cuttlefish>
```

To stop and delete a container:

```bash
cvd_docker_rm <name> # <name defaults to cuttlefish>
```

To list the Cuttlefish containers:

```bash
cvd_docker_list
```

There are two ways to provision a container (that is, to install the Cuttlefish
and Android images on it.)

If cvd_docker_create detects an [Android build
environment](https://source.android.com/setup/build/building) that is set up to
build Cuttlefish, it will automatically set up the container to point to all the
binary artifacts.  Assuming you have downloaded, set up, and built a Cuttlefish
device and Android from the sources, and you call cvd_docker_create in the same
terminal, you can jump ahead to launching Cuttlefish.

If you either don't have the Android build environment or you want to provision
the container with a prebuilt cuttlefish image for example, from [AOSP
CI](htts://ci.android.com), you can follow the steps to [obtain a prebuilt image
of Cuttlefish](https://android.googlesource.com/device/google/cuttlefish/)
(start from step #2, since the container already took care of it). Once you've
obtained the image at step #8, you can copy it to your container as follows:

```bash
# We assume the container is called 'cuttlefish' and
# it was created with "cvd_docker_create cuttlefish"
ssh vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish} -- 'tar xzvf -' < cvd-host_package.tar.gz
scp *.img vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish}:~/
```
As an aid, if you would like to fetch the latest Cuttlefish build from AOSP:

```bash
ssh vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish} -- './download-aosp $(uname -m)'
```

Note that if you want to run Cuttlefish built for x86, you will probably have to
invoke ./download-aosp with the argument 'x86', since your machine will most
likely be 'x86_64':

```bash
ssh vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish} -- './download-aosp x86'
```

# Launching Cuttlefish inside a container

To launch Cuttlefish within the container you've created:

```bash
cvd_start_<name> options
```

For example, if you want to create acontainer named 'cf1' and launch Cuttlefish
with WebRTC support, 4GB of RAM and 4 CPUs:

```bash
source setup.sh
cvd_docker_create cf1
ssh vsoc-01@$ip_cf1 -- './download-aosp $(uname -m)'
cvd_launch_cf1 --start_webrtc --cpus 4 --memory_mb 4096
```

Once done, you stop cuttlefish as follows (in a new terminal)

```bash
source setup.sh
cvd_stop_cf1
```

Each container's IP address will be saved in variable $ip_<name>, where <name>
is the name of the container.  In the example above, the IP address would be in
variable $ip_cf1.

# Connecting to Cuttlefish

To connect to Cuttlefish using ADB and VNC from outside the container:

```bash
adb connect localhost:6520
adb shell
```

Or from the inside (assuming you had set up, provisioned, and booted a container
called cf1):

```bash
ssh vsoc-01@$ip_cf1 -- ./bin/adb -e shell
```

You can see the display using [VNC](https://android.googlesource.com/device/google/cuttlefish/#so-you-want-to-see-cuttlefish) as well. Follow the link to download the VNC viewer. Assuming you've saved it in your current working directory:

```bash
java -jar tightvnc-jviewer.jar -ScalingFactor=50 -Tunneling=no -host=localhost -port=6444
```

Alternatively, if you launched Cuttlefish with the -start_webrtc option, you can
connect (on the same machine as the docker container) by pointing your browser
at https://localhost:8443/

Commit message:

Changes for cuttlefish/android developers
The changes allow developers to build & test the cuttlefish and Android from the source
while relying on docker itself. This does not assume:
 (1) The host system is Debian/Ubuntu
 (2) Access to Google corp resources

Essentially, besides minor improvements for usability, another docker container has
been added to just repo sync the source & build. A script has been added to provide
convenience to use the container.

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building the Docker image

First, install docker and git, and modprobe vhost_vsock:

```bash
curl https://get.docker.com | sh
sudo apt install -y git
sudo modprobe vhost_vsock
```

Then the Docker image can be built as follows:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/google/android-cuttlefish.git
cd android-cuttlefish
./build.sh
```
# Starting and provisioning the container

Set up your environment:

```bash
source setup.sh # once in each terminal window
```

To create a container:
(Steve Kim: it would be worthy explaining that we create a docker
container as a daemon by default, and we have a few options that 
cvd_docker_create --help will list)
```bash
cvd_docker_create <name> # <name defaults to cuttlefish>
```

To stop and delete a container:

```bash
cvd_docker_rm <name> # <name defaults to cuttlefish>
```

To list the Cuttlefish containers:

```bash
cvd_docker_list
```

There are two ways to provision a container (that is, to install the Cuttlefish
and Android images on it.)
(Steve Kim: we would need to modify this part. we have three
now. Another way of doing this is to assign a host directory, 
use the AOSP builder docker container to init, sync, and/or build
cuttlefish device and Android from the source)

If cvd_docker_create detects an [Android build
environment](https://source.android.com/setup/build/building) that is set up to
build Cuttlefish, it will automatically set up the container to point to all the
binary artifacts.  Assuming you have downloaded, set up, and built a Cuttlefish
device and Android from the sources, and you call cvd_docker_create in the same
terminal, you can jump ahead to launching Cuttlefish.

If you either don't have the Android build environment or you want to provision
the container with a prebuilt cuttlefish image for example, from [AOSP
CI](htts://ci.android.com), you can follow the steps to [obtain a prebuilt image
of Cuttlefish](https://android.googlesource.com/device/google/cuttlefish/)
(start from step #2, since the container already took care of it). Once you've
obtained the image at step #8, you can copy it to your container as follows:

```bash
# We assume the container is called 'cuttlefish' and
# it was created with "cvd_docker_create cuttlefish"
ssh vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish} -- 'tar xzvf -' < cvd-host_package.tar.gz
scp *.img vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish}:~/
```
As an aid, if you would like to fetch the latest Cuttlefish build from AOSP:

```bash
ssh vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish} -- './download-aosp $(uname -m)'
```

Note that if you want to run Cuttlefish built for x86, you will probably have to
invoke ./download-aosp with the argument 'x86', since your machine will most
likely be 'x86_64':

```bash
ssh vsoc-01@${ip_cuttlefish} -- './download-aosp x86'
```

# Launching Cuttlefish inside a container

To launch Cuttlefish within the container you've created:

```bash
cvd_start_<name> options
```

For example, if you want to create acontainer named 'cf1' and launch Cuttlefish
with WebRTC support, 4GB of RAM and 4 CPUs:

```bash
source setup.sh
cvd_docker_create cf1
ssh vsoc-01@$ip_cf1 -- './download-aosp $(uname -m)'
cvd_launch_cf1 --start_webrtc --cpus 4 --memory_mb 4096
```

Once done, you stop cuttlefish as follows (in a new terminal)

```bash
source setup.sh
cvd_stop_cf1
```

Each container's IP address will be saved in variable $ip_<name>, where <name>
is the name of the container.  In the example above, the IP address would be in
variable $ip_cf1.

# Connecting to Cuttlefish

To connect to Cuttlefish using ADB and VNC from outside the container:

```bash
adb connect localhost:6520
adb shell
```

Or from the inside (assuming you had set up, provisioned, and booted a container
called cf1):

```bash
ssh vsoc-01@$ip_cf1 -- ./bin/adb -e shell
```

You can see the display using [VNC](https://android.googlesource.com/device/google/cuttlefish/#so-you-want-to-see-cuttlefish) as well. Follow the link to download the VNC viewer. Assuming you've saved it in your current working directory:

```bash
java -jar tightvnc-jviewer.jar -ScalingFactor=50 -Tunneling=no -host=localhost -port=6444
```

Alternatively, if you launched Cuttlefish with the -start_webrtc option, you can
connect (on the same machine as the docker container) by pointing your browser
at https://localhost:8443/
